---
slug: release-0.25
title: "New in Wave 0.25.0"
author: Martin Turoci
author_title: Software Engineer @ H2O.ai
author_url: https://github.com/mturoci
author_image_url: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/64769322?v=4
image: /img/blog-preview.png

tags: [release]
---

The first Wave release of 2023 is here and brings a lot of exciting features!

<!--truncate-->

## Form card layout

<!-- TODO: Implement first. -->

## Improved upload performance

Uploading files to the Wave server using `q.site.upload` is one of the most common things our developers do. This allows for ability to provide file downloads or simply use the uploaded files as resources (images, CSS, JS etc.). Another interesting finding is that most of the Wave apps run on the very same machine as their Wave server. We decided to leverage this fact and do a simple file system copy instead of HTTP upload which is significantly [faster](https://github.com/h2oai/wave/pull/1765) since the data doesn't need to be serialized/deserialized during transport. This means if you use `q.site.upload` for large files a lot, your app should suddenly become much faster.

## Improved image annotator

Our [image annotator](/docs/widgets/form/image_annotator/) component now supports exciting features like keyboard shortcuts or zooming that greatly improve UX.

<!-- TODO: Screenshot of keyboard shortcuts. -->

<!-- TODO: Gif of zooming. -->

## Wavelite

We heard out our community asking to use Wave in other poular python Web frameworks like Django, FastAPI etc, thus Wavelite was born. The general idea was to get rid of Wave Server (waved) and hook into existing web server provided by your framework of choice. The whole integration consists of registering a websocket route and exposing static directory with Wave HTML/CSS/JS files. Once done, you can render your Wave UI and handle user interactions as you would in Wave. As of initial release, only frameworks that are capable of registering async websockets are supported. In case of community interest, sync API can be added as well.

Since there is no Wave server anymore, features like built-in OIDC integration or uploading files would not work - these need to be handled by your framework.

Wavelite is currently alpha and we are more than happy to get as much feedback as possible. A separate docs site is planned. For now, the minimal documentation is condensed into a [README](https://). You can also read a dedicated Wavelite blog post.
<!-- TODO: Add readme / blog link. -->

## Feedback

We look forward to continuing our collaboration with the community and hearing your feedback as we further improve and expand the H2O Wave platform.

We'd like to thank the entire Wave team and the community for all of the contributions to this work!
